# Nanoparticle tools
This is a collection of tools mostly dating back to my Ph.D. work at Northwestern University (conducted in the [Schatz group] (http://sites.northwestern.edu/schatz/)).  Some of this code is a bit older and doesn't adhere to good coding practices, but I'm busy enough with my current research that I don't have the bandwidth to update it.  The name "nanoparticle" tools is somewhat fradulent, because scripts like q-trajectory are actually for surfaces, but because the intent was to study the surfaces of *nanoparticles*, the name stuck.

* md-order-output.py: Obsolete, but here for archival purposes. A messy (and in some cases hideous) but functional implementation of a bond orientational ordering parameter based on spherical harmonics (see ["Bond-orientational order in liquids and glasses"] (http://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.28.784), Phys. Rev. B **28**, 784, and the papers which cite it).  As Pymatgen became an increasingly important part of my workflow, I switched to their implementations of ordering parameters.

* radial_ordering.py: Calculates the bond orientational ordering for atoms in concentric shells of nanoparticle structures read in from local files.

*  q-trajectory.py: Computes a matrix of molecular alignment vectors and diagonalizes it to get the overall so-called "director axis" of different molecular species in the simulation.  More details about the mathematics of this ordering analysis can be found in my paper, ["Reverse Non-Equilibrium Molecular Dynamics Demonstrate That Surface Passivation Controls Thermal Transport at Semiconductor–Solvent Interfaces"] (http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acsnano.5b01724), ACS Nano **9** (6), 6278.

* surface_passivation.py: Accurate calculations of nanoparticles require the surface to capped with ligands to passivate dangling bonds, which distort the electronic and atomic structure through surface reconstructions.  This script places passivating pseudohydrogen atoms at each of the surface sites (which are identified automatically) of a nanoparticle structure read in locally. 
